feat(cli): add /chat file commands for session management (#3190)
QwenLM/qwen-code: .qwen/commands/chat-save.md

# chat-save.md — Save Current Session

1. Validate `{{name}}`: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_.-]+$`, ≤128, ≠ `.`/`..`/`__proto__`/`constructor`/`prototype`. Invalid → error, stop.
2. Read `.qwen/chat-index.json` (project root, NOT runtime base). File not found → `{}`. **JSON parse error → output `"chat-index.json is malformed. Fix it manually before saving."` and stop. Do NOT overwrite.**
3. If `{{name}}` in index → ask "Overwrite? (yes/no)". ≠ yes → stop.
4. Session ID = **newest `.jsonl` file by modification time** in `<runtimeBase>/projects/<sanitizeCwd>/chats/`. The filename (without `.jsonl`) IS the session UUID. ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If wrong session is saved, resume the target session first, then run `/chat -s`. No .jsonl found → "No session found. Start a conversation first.", stop.

> 5. Add or update `{{name}}` key in existing index object. Write back (2-space indent, ensure `.qwen/` exists).

Reviewer: **[Critical]** Step 5 says "Add or update `{{name}}` key in existing index object. Write back". No mention of:

- **Atomic write** (temp + fsync + rename). If the LLM/process is killed between truncate and final write, `chat-index.json` ends up half-written → next invocation hits the malformed-JSON branch (correctly added in recent revisions) → user can no longer save/list/delete until they hand-edit JSON.
- **File locking**. Two concurrent `/chat -s` from sibling terminals (the very workflow this PR enables via `/chat -r` opening new windows!) both read the same prior index, each add a different name, second writer silently clobbers the first. One save lost, no error.

Same gap in `chat-delete.md:33` (Step 2.3 "write back").

Suggested fix in chat-save.md Step 5 (and chat-delete.md Step 2.3):

```
5. Write the updated object to `.qwen/chat-index.json.tmp` (2-space indent), then
   atomically rename it over `.qwen/chat-index.json`. If `.qwen/chat-index.json.tmp`
   already exists from a previous interrupted run, treat it as garbage and overwrite.
   Before reading the index, briefly check for the .tmp file as a hint that an earlier
   write was interrupted and warn the user.
```

For concurrent-write protection, the practical mitigation in pure .md is to re-read just before write and merge if changed (still racy but tighter window). A real fix needs a small core helper with file locking — out of scope for this PR but worth a tracking note in CHAT-DESIGN.md.

_via Qwen Code /review_

# chat-save.md — Save Current Session

1. Validate `{{name}}`: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_.-]+$`, ≤128, ≠ `.`/`..`/`__proto__`/`constructor`/`prototype`. Invalid → error, stop.
2. Read `.qwen/chat-index.json` (project root, NOT runtime base). File not found → `{}`. **JSON parse error → output `"chat-index.json is malformed. Fix it manually before saving."` and stop. Do NOT overwrite.**
3. If `{{name}}` in index → ask "Overwrite? (yes/no)". ≠ yes → stop.

> 4. Session ID = **newest `.jsonl` file by modification time** in `<runtimeBase>/projects/<sanitizeCwd>/chats/`. The filename (without `.jsonl`) IS the session UUID. ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If wrong session is saved, resume the target session first, then run `/chat -s`. No .jsonl found → "No session found. Start a conversation first.", stop.

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `chat-save` selects the newest `.jsonl` by mtime without verifying the session belongs to the current project. The same diff added project-identity verification to `chat-resume` (steps 4–5: read JSONL `cwd`, compare via `sanitizeCwd`), but `chat-save` has no equivalent check. When `sanitizeCwd` collides across project paths, `chat-save` can store a session ID from a different project — and `chat-resume` will then reject it with "Session belongs to another project."

Consider adding: after selecting the newest `.jsonl`, read its first line and verify `cwd` matches the current project before saving.

_— glm-5.1 via Qwen Code /review_

> # chat-save.md — Save Current Session

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The "Runtime Base Resolution + sanitizeCwd + runtimeOutputDir" block at the end of this file is already present verbatim in `chat.md`'s Common Rules. Since `chat.md` is always loaded before sub-commands, this duplicates ~300 chars. With the total at 13814/15000 chars (only 1186 chars of headroom), removing the duplicate from `chat-save.md` and `chat-resume.md` would free ~600 chars for future additions.

**Suggested fix:** Replace the trailing block with: `(See chat.md Common Rules for runtimeBase and sanitizeCwd details.)`

_— pai/glm-5.1 via Qwen Code /review_

> # chat-save.md — Save Current Session

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** Step 5 reads the `.jsonl` first line for project verification but only handles the case where the `cwd` field is missing. It does not define behavior when the first line is not valid JSON. `chat-resume` step 4 explicitly handles this ("Session file corrupt at line 1. Aborted."), but `chat-save` has no corresponding spec. A corrupt `.jsonl` would cause unpredictable LLM behavior.

**Suggested fix:** Add to step 5: "If first line is not valid JSON → skip verification (corrupt session, allow save with warning)" or "First line not valid JSON → Aborted", consistent with chat-resume.

_— pai/glm-5.1 via Qwen Code /review_

> # chat-save.md — Save Current Session

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** `FileCommandLoader` scans `**/*.md` recursively, so `/chat-save`, `/chat-list`, `/chat-resume`, `/chat-delete` all appear as independent slash commands. Direct invocation (e.g., `/chat-save my-session`) bypasses the router's argument parsing, locale detection, and name validation.

Options: (a) move sub-commands to a non-scanned location (e.g., `.qwen/chat-includes/`), (b) prefix with `_` and update the loader to skip them, or (c) accept the dual-path and add a note to each sub-command that direct invocation skips validation.

_— glm-5.1 via Qwen Code /review_

1. Validate `{{name}}`: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_.-]+$`, ≤128, ≠ `.`/`..`/`__proto__`/`constructor`/`prototype`. Invalid → error, stop.
2. Read `.qwen/chat-index.json` (project root, NOT runtime base). File not found → `{}`. **JSON parse error → output `"chat-index.json is malformed. Fix it manually before saving."` and stop. Do NOT overwrite.**
3. If `{{name}}` in index → ask "Overwrite? (yes/no)". ≠ yes → stop.
4. Session ID = **newest `.jsonl` file by modification time** in `<runtimeBase>/projects/<sanitizeCwd>/chats/`. The filename (without `.jsonl`) IS the session UUID. ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If wrong session is saved, resume the target session first, then run `/chat -s`. No .jsonl found → "No session found. Start a conversation first.", stop.
5. **Verify session belongs to current project**: Read the first line of the selected `.jsonl` file.
   - If JSON has no `cwd` field → skip verification (legacy session, allow save).
   - Apply `sanitizeCwd(<cwd>)` and compare with current project's `<sanitizeCwd>`. If they don't match → "Error: Selected session belongs to another project. Aborted. Please resume the session from its original project first.", stop.

> 6. Add or update `{{name}}` key in existing index object. Write back (2-space indent, ensure `.qwen/` exists).

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** "Write back" without atomic write protection. An interrupted write (OOM, Ctrl+C, timeout) truncates `chat-index.json`. All four sub-commands then report "malformed" with no self-repair mechanism.

The design doc (section 1.3) identifies this as a lesson from review round 2 ("saveSessionToIndex 没有原子写入"), yet the current instructions don't implement it. The same issue exists in `chat-delete.md` step 5.

```suggestion
6. Add or update `{{name}}` key in existing index object. **Write atomically**: write to `.qwen/.chat-index.json.tmp` first, then rename/move to `.qwen/chat-index.json`. Do NOT write directly to the index file.
```

7. Output: `Saved: {{name}} → <id>` (or `Overwritten: ...`)

> **Runtime Base Resolution** (in priority order):

Reviewer: **[Suggestion]** The runtimeBase resolution docs list 2 tiers (`$QWEN_RUNTIME_DIR` > `~/.qwen`). The actual `Storage.getRuntimeBaseDir()` has 4 tiers including `settings.json`'s `advanced.runtimeOutputDir` and `AsyncLocalStorage` context. Users with `runtimeOutputDir` configured will see `/chat -l` return "No saved sessions" even though sessions exist — a silent failure with no error message.

The "Note" about this is accurate but buried. Consider elevating it: add a detection step that warns when `~/.qwen/projects/<sanitizeCwd>/chats/` is empty but sessions are expected.

_— glm-5.1 via Qwen Code /review_

# chat-save.md — Save Current Session

1. Validate `{{name}}`: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_.-]+$`, ≤128, ≠ `.`/`..`/`__proto__`/`constructor`/`prototype`. Invalid → error, stop.

> 2. Read `.qwen/chat-index.json` (project root, NOT `~/.qwen/`). Missing → `{}`.

Reviewer: **[Critical]** `newest .jsonl file` is not a reliable definition of the current session. In a project with multiple active or recently resumed sessions, `/chat -s <name>` can bind the name to a different conversation than the one the user is saving, so a later resume may open the wrong chat.

Use a session identifier from the current runtime context instead of filesystem mtime, or explicitly redefine the feature as saving the most recent project session and update the help text to match.

_— gpt-5.4 via Qwen Code /review_

> 2. Read `.qwen/chat-index.json` (project root, NOT `~/.qwen/`). File not found → `{}`. **JSON parse error → output `"chat-index.json is malformed. Fix it manually before saving."` and stop. Do NOT overwrite.**

Reviewer: **[Critical]** This step now depends on a "runtime context" session ID that file-based custom commands do not appear to receive in this codebase. `createSlashCommandFromDefinition()` returns processed prompt text, but there is no command action API here that exposes the active chat UUID to Markdown commands, so the primary save path is not actually implementable as written.

Please either redesign the feature around data the file-command system can really access, or explicitly document a supported source for the active session ID instead of claiming the runtime context provides it.

_— gpt-5.4 via Qwen Code /review_

> 2. Read `.qwen/chat-index.json` (project root, NOT `~/.qwen/`). File not found → `{}`. **JSON parse error → output `"chat-index.json is malformed. Fix it manually before saving."` and stop. Do NOT overwrite.**

Reviewer: **[Critical]** This points the command at `~/.qwen/projects/<hash>/chats/`, but current session storage does not use the SHA-256 hash for project chat files. `Storage.getProjectDir()` builds the project directory from `sanitizeCwd(projectRoot)`, and chat recording stores transcripts under that project directory. As written, `/chat -s` and `/chat -r` can look in the wrong directory and fail to find existing sessions.

Please update the command specs and matching source/tests/docs to use the same sanitized project directory convention as `Storage.getProjectDir()`, not the SHA-256 project hash.

_— gpt-5.5 via Qwen Code /review_
